readme.md, before:

# Prisma Generator Pothos Codegen
This is a prisma generator that auto generate all input types for Crud Operations to Pothos. Use it as args for crud operations.

**The roadmap:**

- [x] Generator code for all input fields.
- [ ] Generator for all `Objects`, `Queries` and `Mutations`. Something like `prisma-tools` do with Prisma and Nexus.

## Getting Started

### Install

`yarn add prisma-generator-pothos-codegen` or `npm install prisma-generator-pothos-codegen`

### Usage

#### Add generator

```
generator client {
  provider = "prisma-client-js"
}

generator nexusPrisma {
   provider = "prisma-generator-pothos-codegen"
}

/// This is a user!
model User {
  /// This is an id!
  id  String  @id
}
```

#### Add scalar types to builder

```ts
import { Scalars } from 'prisma-generator-pothos-codegen'

export const builder = new SchemaBuilder<{
  Scalars: Scalars,
}>({
  ...
});
```

#### Import inputs from the generated file, and add as args.

```ts
import * as Inputs from './generated/inputs'

builder.queryFields((t) => ({
  findManyUser: t.field({
    type: [User],
    args: {
      where: t.arg({ type: Inputs.UserWhereInput }),
      orderBy: t.arg({ type: [Inputs.UserOrderByWithRelationInput] }),
      cursor: t.arg({ type: Inputs.UserWhereUniqueInput }),
      take: t.arg({ type: 'Int' }),
      skip: t.arg({ type: 'Int' }),
      distinct: t.arg({ type: [Inputs.UserScalarFieldEnum] }),
    },
    resolve: async (root, args) => {
      const user = await db.user.findMany({
        where: args.where || undefined,
        cursor: args.cursor || undefined,
        take: args.take || undefined,
        distinct: args.distinct || undefined,
        skip: args.skip || undefined,
        orderBy: args.orderBy || undefined,
      })

      return user
    }
  }),
}))

```

The generator currently supports a few options:

|          Key          |              Default Value              |                                              Description                                             |
|:----------------------|:----------------------------------------|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| inputsPrismaImporter  | import { Prisma } from ".prisma/client" | When the file was generated, its needed to import Prisma. Here we can set from where to import.      |
| inputsBuilderImporter | import { builder } from "./builder"     | When the file was generated, its needed to import the builder. Here we can set from where to import. |
| output                | /generated/inputs.ts                    | Where the inputs are generated                                                                       |
| excludeInputs         | undefined                               | String list of inputs to be not generated, ie: ['UserCreateInput']                                   |
| excludeScalars        | undefined                               | String list of scalars to be not generated, ie: ['DateTime']                                         |

The tested environments:
| **Prisma Version** | **Database**      | **State** |
|--------------------|-------------------|-----------|
| 3.12 - 4.00        | Postgres - Sqlite | ✅        |


### Example
Check for the [example](/examples/inputs-simple) for a running sample
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/8796757/178087266-0a852f43-a7b5-48a0-bc13-a3ece9788457.png)

# Disclosures
## Models with only relations
- We create a custom scalar `NEVER` that avoids this error: `Input Object type FollowUpdateManyMutationInput must define one or more fields.` from Graphql. if you have models that are relations-only. Like N-N fields without `no relation fields` or id-only models, we set field `_` of some operations to this scalar. If you fill this fake property, the operation will result in a error.

## BigInt rename
- As `BigInt` is reserved, we export `Bigint` for the BigInt scalar.

# Publishing

- Run `npm run build`
- Run `npm run pub`

Commit message:

feat: crud imports from generator options

readme.md, after:

# Prisma Generator Pothos Codegen
This is a prisma generator that auto generate all input types for Crud Operations to Pothos. Use it as args for crud operations.

**The roadmap:**

- [x] Generator code for all input fields.
- [ ] Generator for all `Objects`, `Queries` and `Mutations`. Something like `prisma-tools` do with Prisma and Nexus.

## Getting Started

### Install

`yarn add prisma-generator-pothos-codegen` or `npm install prisma-generator-pothos-codegen`

### Usage

#### Add generator

```
generator client {
  provider = "prisma-client-js"
}

generator nexusPrisma {
   provider = "prisma-generator-pothos-codegen"
}

/// This is a user!
model User {
  /// This is an id!
  id  String  @id
}
```

#### Add scalar types to builder

```ts
import { Scalars } from 'prisma-generator-pothos-codegen'

export const builder = new SchemaBuilder<{
  Scalars: Scalars,
}>({
  ...
});
```

#### Import inputs from the generated file, and add as args.

```ts
import * as Inputs from './generated/inputs'

builder.queryFields((t) => ({
  findManyUser: t.field({
    type: [User],
    args: {
      where: t.arg({ type: Inputs.UserWhereInput }),
      orderBy: t.arg({ type: [Inputs.UserOrderByWithRelationInput] }),
      cursor: t.arg({ type: Inputs.UserWhereUniqueInput }),
      take: t.arg({ type: 'Int' }),
      skip: t.arg({ type: 'Int' }),
      distinct: t.arg({ type: [Inputs.UserScalarFieldEnum] }),
    },
    resolve: async (root, args) => {
      const user = await db.user.findMany({
        where: args.where || undefined,
        cursor: args.cursor || undefined,
        take: args.take || undefined,
        distinct: args.distinct || undefined,
        skip: args.skip || undefined,
        orderBy: args.orderBy || undefined,
      })

      return user
    }
  }),
}))

```

The generator currently supports a few options:

|          Key          |              Default Value              |                                              Description                                             |
|:----------------------|:----------------------------------------|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| inputsPrismaImporter  | import { Prisma } from ".prisma/client"; | When the file was generated, its needed to import Prisma. Here we can set from where to import.      |
| inputsBuilderImporter | import { builder } from "@/schema/builder";  | When the file was generated, its needed to import the builder. Here we can set from where to import. |
| crudBuilderImporter   | import { builder } from "@/schema/builder";     | When the files was generated, its needed to import the builder. Here we can set from where to import. |
| crudInputsImporter    | import * as Inputs from "@/generated/inputs";     | When the files was generated, its needed to import the inputs. Here we can set from where to import. |
| output                | /generated/inputs.ts                    | Where the inputs are generated                                                                       |
| excludeInputs         | undefined                               | String list of inputs to be not generated, ie: ['UserCreateInput']                                   |
| excludeScalars        | undefined                               | String list of scalars to be not generated, ie: ['DateTime']                                         |

The tested environments:
| **Prisma Version** | **Database**      | **State** |
|--------------------|-------------------|-----------|
| 3.12 - 4.00        | Postgres - Sqlite | ✅        |


### Example
Check for the [example](/examples/inputs-simple) for a running sample
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/8796757/178087266-0a852f43-a7b5-48a0-bc13-a3ece9788457.png)

# Disclosures
## Models with only relations
- We create a custom scalar `NEVER` that avoids this error: `Input Object type FollowUpdateManyMutationInput must define one or more fields.` from Graphql. if you have models that are relations-only. Like N-N fields without `no relation fields` or id-only models, we set field `_` of some operations to this scalar. If you fill this fake property, the operation will result in a error.

## BigInt rename
- As `BigInt` is reserved, we export `Bigint` for the BigInt scalar.

# Publishing

- Run `npm run build`
- Run `npm run pub`
